This story was told by an incarcerated individual at the San Joaquin County Jail.</br></b

Caller: From being out and having basically complete freedom, you know, where you can walk out the door and you can, you know, we – we could go out in the woods or we could do whatever to – to being back on a secure yard and, you know, watching everybody else just get regular program. But I ended up getting released off that. I ended up getting released, like, on quarantine. And when I left, they had – like, there was no – it was 45 days in and there was no – there wasn't yard – like, any type of yard service or anything like that. You couldn't go out. There's no church. There's no, like, the no library, no store, no none of that stuff. It was just you're just locked in a room and, like, you know, there's no, like, social distance. I don't know. Like, you know, I don't think you guys have probably ever been locked up, but there's no social distance in jail or in prison. There's no, you know, I need this six feet of space. It's all about the – in – in, like, [unintelligible] right now when I go into the store [unintelligible] I'm currently on quarantine in the county jail, and my court date is tomorrow, and everybody else's courts date have come and gone and, like, nobody gets to go to court. Due process is just non-existent.</br></br>

Here they – they had the – so our food comes from a – the honor farm. They – they, you know, basically it – [unintelligible] vendors, so our food comes in in, like, a, you know, a little box basically or little tray, and it's, you know, like a scoop of beans and a scoop of rice and, you know, they have a cold tray with a little scoop of salad and some bread or something like that. And for breakfast usually it's always either oat – it's basically always oatmeal. But, so, the honor farm, which is the – responsible for sending the food over to this area had – it – it contacted the virus first, and they went on lockdown, so we've been getting basically peanut butter sandwiches for a month – a month and a half now, almost two months just peanut butter sandwiches, and – and an apple; you know? Like, I laugh, but it's not really funny. Then we get one hot meal a day, and it's usually beans or – or beans and potatoes is, like, the biggest – the biggest thing. Like, every – every third day you'll get like a – a soy product or something to resemble meat.</br></br>

But they – so we have – this kind of jail runs a little different. When you're in the – in the pod area, it – you have your own cell and there's no bathroom. Like, the bathroom is outside. You know, mostly when you see, like, jails and stuff like that, pictures of jail cells or prison cells or something, there's usually a bathroom in it. Well, this one doesn't – doesn't have it. The door doesn't lock. You're allowed to go outside of your cell. During normal program, we have, you know, a little handball court outside. There's eight TVs or six TVs or something like that. And, you know, a dayroom area where you can go out there and play games. And the only time during the day that you're locked down is from 4: 00 to 6: 00. So, like, but there's no cleaning supplies. There's the, you know, you get at 3: 00 in the morning or 3: 30 in the morning when we have breakfast they have – they put out cleaning supplies for the people that have to do their chores, and there's just one type of cleaner, and it's, like, a super watered-down disinfectant. And they have this other stuff that they put out that the people here, they really think that it's, like, the best stuff going because it smells good, but it's glass cleaner.