This story was told by an incarcerated individual at the San Joaquin County Jail.</br></b

And then they coursed through the, like, man, we went down. We had a population of 100 and, like, 20 people in the camp, and within 45 days we were down to about 22 people. And we had – we – we had a, you know, a decent program. You know, they moved TVs into our dorms. And luckily, our bunks were – our bunks were six feet apart, but they were in – they were individual bunks with little partitions between them, so we kind of got by. Well, they – I don't know about getting by, but we ended up not having to do a whole lot of movement, but because they kept thinning up the population because every – it was, like, 12 people with it, and then 19, and then 20, and we had a group of individuals that tried to ace the test by snorting anti-bacterial soap? Like, they chopped up anti-bacterial soap and snorted it in the nostril that they kept testing us in. And then they rolled up, like, 30 guys on that one just because there were so many inconclusive tests. Like, you know, you know, sometimes people in the inmate population aren't that bright, but, so, they did that.</br></br>

And then that – we got down to there was about 20 of us or 22 of us in the camp, and, I mean, like we were – like, the food, like, there was just huge amounts of food that were going to waste because there's nobody to eat it, but they had, you know, because all the food was brought in, like, on a monthly plan. And, so, like, they made all the food as if it was a regular thing, and we were – and, like, there was big fires. Like, it was a horrible season because, like, it was in the middle of fire season, we're supposed to be out there fighting fires, and all of the – all of the camps were on quarantine and they couldn't go out. And then at the – at the very end, like, I was – I was about two weeks out from – from actually getting released myself on my regular out date, but everybody keeps coming up and getting these – these weird spur of the moment releases.</br></br>

And then they come in and they just told us all to pack up our stuff and – and go to – we had to go back to the facility because there was so many people in the facility from our camp that all had positive tests and they were past their quarantine time, so they just rolled all of us up that didn't have – that never contacted – contracted the virus, they sent us in and put us on a yard that was full of – of people that had the virus, but there was just our two dorms that were not allowed to nothing – no phones, no – no library, no laundry services, no anything. Nothing like that whereas we were, you know, it – and then the only way we would have been able to go back to camp was if we contacted the virus and, like, there were people doing weird stuff like going out and, you know, just they – they were trying to contact the virus however they could. They were maximizing the surface areas that they were touching, you know, they were – they were doing weird stuff. Like, I don't know. I'm not going to really put that out there.