Family
I was told that my mom was in the hospital in a vegetative state with only a respirator keeping her alive. Only she really was not alive at all. I was speaking to my sister “sobbing uncontrollably“ I can hear other family members fighting and blaming each other as I listined not knowing what I was supposed to say. The Dr. got on the phone and explain to me that my mother is no longer with us but that he has kept her on the respirator as my family waited to hear from me here at the prison. At the time I did not know what to do. Normally I am not so easily at a lost forwards. Out of nowhere (I think and give God the glory) The words came to me to just comfort my family and encourage them. Only in the back of my mind I kept thinking; well what about me? I am not suppose to be dealing with all of this. Instead I told them to put on my brother who had vented the most. Once on, I told him to comfort his sisters and that now is not the time to be fighting. Going on to say that this is that it is suppose to be, my son is supposed to bury his mother and not the other way around. I told my brother that his role now is to prepare for the funeral. Knowing that they were all listening I said, all of you go and pray over her and give her a rose while she still lives (I did not know she was in some sort of bubble room) and don’t wait till she is gone to throw it over her casket. I was so numb as I said this. My brother says to me all of a sudden “[Redacted], I can’t see you” I say to him, what are you talking about? You know where I am. Except I did know inside what he was saying. I think I said something to the effect, don’t worry about me just do your part and take care of the family and hung up. I left that phone call walking in slow motion back to my silently. I did not cry only swelled up a little later while thinking about it wishing I had some one to talk to about it then I was familiar with that I trusted. I wondered if I had said and done the right thing. But there was no one their to turn to or talk to so I kept praying. A day or so later the prison pulled me out again to call home. Mind you, through it all the prison is on quarantine and no one understands this virus, especially me. I am still not taking it ”the virus” seriously. This last time I’m allowed to call all of my family is sitting around telling stories about what use to get on my mothers nerves and what use to make her laugh. My other brother had gone over to my mothers place to light candles because he was still upset that (we) allowed the Dr. to pull the plug. I was at least glad they were laughing. Covid19 had taken my mother and my family was getting past it.