This letter was written by a person incarcerated at Wasco.</br></br>From the pandemic, to natural disasters, to over 20 fires in California, to unemployment rates at a historical high this all gave me a sense of lost hope for what’s waiting for me outside these walls. The news made me feel like I was going to come out to a new world and I’m yet to truly see the changes this has all caused. I felt like I was just going to be stuck inside to die in a place where no one should ever have to. Having no face to face visits only added to the emotional roller coaster I was going through. We used to get visits once a week for an hour to be in front of a familiar face (of course separated by glass) and actually feel at ease for your time being.</br></br>I’ve had PTSD for god only knows how long, I had witnessed my friend’s father get shot at the age of seven and numerous similar events throughout my life time in Salinas, CA where I was born and raised. I have trouble sleeping before being incarcerated and being inside only made it worse. The only thing at the time that made me feel calm is knowing my family was safe. I would have ridiculous nightmares of being shot, a pandemic that created zombies (crazy, I know), and of mega earthquakes causing tsunamis and me drowning in a cell. All these nightmares would cause me to wake up in cold sweats. I would always dry myself off and drink water all while thinking that all these events I dream of were possibilities that could happen in the near future. This only fueled my hopelessness and isolation from the world.</br></br>I truly never knew what was going on out there all I had was the local news and word of mouth. With my PTSD being triggered I noticed I was having trouble reading, exercising, excessive eating and sleeping, I felt like I was going downhill. I noticed on the news that there were people shedding positive light on mental health awareness and how we all need to check in with ourselves every now and then. I had already read a book by Elyn R. Saks titled “The Center Cannot Hold”, while I was in the infirmary in the county jail to recover from the appendicitis I got in March. This all gave me the confidence I needed to seek professional help since I was feeling low all the time and occasionally even suicidal thoughts. I put in a mental health request and was seen like two weeks later, the nurses were helpful and gave me articles to read on how to cope and recommended I take Zoloft and was able to get things more under control with physical and mental exercise. I still continue to exercise six days a week, meditate at least once a week, I read and write, eat healthier (even though it’s hard given the limited options) and continue to seek my purpose through spirituality which is why I wrote this.