This letter was written by a person incarcerated at SATF (California Substance Abuse Treatment Facility and State Prison).</br></br>

I have changed my life by changing my way of thinking and my mental habits. I consciously decide what I will think and not allow environment or fate to determine my path this is the essence of self-help, I changed because I was very desperate to make some thing of my life, the more choices that I had the greater the need for focus. It is important to me that I make my family proud of me. Today I think differently. I self talked until I became free of all my distorted views, and self perceptions. I am not the same person that I used to be. Today my thinking is clear, and goal focused oriented to the point that I see nothing, but the finish line.</br></br>

I have taken a more clinical approach to personal development. I have learned that a depressed person loses focus on your reality, and become impulsive. Today, I use simple yet affective tools to combat the devil temptation that haunted me my entire life before I used to store what I thought was actually happening in my mind, not what was actually happening distorted views can change your way of seeing just about everything, rationalization is the process I used to justify my thoughts, and actions so they appeared logically. In order not to look absurd, I would gather others to give me support in an attempt to further justify my conduct, and behavior for me it was necessary to feel hope in the future in order to be excited about change. It is very important to truly believe that change is possible. In order to change, and accomplish the things that I wanted to do in my life.</br></br> 

Today, I feel that I have made great strides in the right direction. I have done a lot of work on myself, I have changed my principles, and beliefs, I do believe that change is possible, and that results take time to measure. Awareness is a fundamental part, a fundamental part of the changing process many meaningful changes come from within me. I change the way that I thought about myself and my actions did follow my thoughts just have made my life what it is today. I had received a life without the possibility of parole sentence. The details of my crime is not important because theirs no excuse that can justify my actions. The hardest thing I have ever done was admit, and accept responsibility, these years have helped me find myself and many years to think of my actions, and their self development has transformed the way I think, and respond to learn a lot about myself, and the character defects that led to my choices to engage in a very immature self-centered, and selfish criminal behavior.</br></br> 

I have made many efforts, to change, and improve my lifestyle the best way possible, by education, and means of challenges of self-help programs, I've become more serious, and focused, motivated, and in courage to work on myself, about mistakes I've made, and worked on real personal issues that lead me to a life that I lived, and how I can develepe now using tools, and coping skills, and from programs like Bakersfield College, working in the dining hall a.m. and p.m. to become a central kitchen clerk, and program, so I am able to work on myself to become a better person to prevent any relapse into this old warped belief system, and to help me to remove myself from high-risk situations, and to also to effectively manage any stressors, or triggers that influence antisocial responses. I am no longer that immature person that committed that shameful act years ago. And I am now able to live a productive life if given a second chance through the board of prison terms now that I have rehabilitated myself from level 4 yards to now being at a level 2 facility, I would love to be in a class but we are restricted from school home study.</br></br> 

Wear a mask, temperature checks, nose COVID-test checks. Some go to other yards then have to speak up for laundry. Some are seeing having tablets a resource to communicate with loved ones, it's an ongoing process. Canteen and packages get delivered in bags. Some people get put on quarantine because of doctor visits 14 to 22 days in cells. Being moved to other buildings, testing, being placed in other housing units, trying to get back to original unit. Being spaced out with bunks, and some people go to other yards for quarantine like that already tested positive. They send them back to same building. Some have positive inmates in the group where they all sleep so the whole group has been affected by one inmate. Vendors stop shopping from certain package companies putting orders on hold. Families have to get reimbursed.</br></br> 

I've seen a couple of people get very sick and die. I've been here 10 to 11 years now doing the necessary to get a date to show transformation rehabilitation and this COVID-19 has put a hold on the court system so it's more difficult to get your case reviewed. I've been supporting myself the best of my ability getting a date will impact my life with the chance of independence, work, being in the field of career choices challenges transition and job searches write back and tell me. Bring that type of encouragement focus motivation positive strategies, techniques. Here's my introduction, to jobs transition. We keep restrooms showers bunks stairs tables clean hands. Through laundry. I'm just praying the list of programs classes, traditional jobs addressed show I'm ready for eligibility to parole. I got this address from a friend. I decided to write no story is to small or to big gave me the inspiration to write. Thank you for your time.</br></br>

Hi I wanted to take the opportunity, and the option of acknowledging you that I came across your address I do think it will be a great outlook on positive productive influence a career field or schooling or trade training experience. Also your transition or independent assisting housing living into a direction with trying a new positional challenge, I am inspired by people and their stories of looking forward in life to position of where I'm headed and where I want to be as necessary techniques, positive resources creative strategies positive resources a future for myself self-help, self-esteem, self-worth, competence, focused patterns, weather with behavioral tipps, conduct, to be a part of possibilities, society, as well as being surrounded by experienced people in the working fields learning techniques</br></br>

I guess like to hear from you in the near future about this address, and the provided information, a pamphlet brochure that will help me on more insight or other enlightenment, on the possible outlook this pandemic is huge and having a sentence like me doing all of the above to show change and this COVID-19 it's really stressful because of catching it and not being able to show courts, Family, my self the desires to show everyone how taking life serious has made a definite impact on me. Lost loved ones I became the gentleman they all prayed for. So it's definitely a experience you’re fighting for your life through courts and rehabilitation and fighting to stay alive with this COVID-19 to make it back home.