This letter was written by a person incarcerated at Orange County Theo Lacy Jail.</br></br>


To properly start this letter in a respectful way I want to thank you and your team for choosing me, and pretty sure many others, to be part of your project. I hope you, your team, and your professor are in good health when you receive this letter. I find it interesting how you guys are doing this project and would like To learn more about it. It's really cool how someone actually cares about any of us inmates. Most people don't really care for us because of our cases, crimes, drug addiction, and other problems that some of us have. So to hear that a group of you and your team would like to know how we're doing while dealing with this worldwide pandemic pretty much amazes me. Honestly you guys can share this letter with my info shown, I give permission so please when you and your team post this story, if you guys decide to or not, please show my name and everything as it is.</br></br>


Truthfully not trying to brag but my story is kind of a shocker. Especially on how everything occurred here at this facility that I am in. I hope you and your team don't mind but I will be giving my full story from the moment I was incarcerated up until now. So to start this off,  I was originally born in Mexico and the City of Cuernavaca state of Morelos. I just turned 24 in March. I have two amazing kids with an amazing, loving, beautiful wife. My sons are six and the other will turn two in May. My oldest turns 6 in February which sucked but I'll get to that part more into the story.</br></br>


The day I got arrested was Monday in the month of November. It's been three years or two since I've been arrested so I didn't know that they would be quarantined. Sorry for my misspelling. I was at Orange County Men’s Jail in Santa Ana for my booking and processing. After all that oh, they took me to Theo Lacy Jail which is in Orange where I'm currently at. So being in this pandemic, we’re supposed to be isolated from each other for 14 days give or take. We're supposed to be in the cell by ourselves but I saw in the quarantine mods/sectors that some cells had 2 people per cell. To me, it made no sense about the six feet apart rule if at the same time you have another person in the same cell. Now, remember we're in jail so every cell holds two people and the cells aren't really that big so the six feet rule really doesn't apply at all.</br></br>


Thankfully I was put by myself in a cell so everything is all cool and all days were passing by without a problem in the first 14 days of my arrest until I was tested. I came out negative which was good, the only thing is now I have to wait to get cleared by the medical staff here. The only thing is it's supposed to take one day, two the most to get cleared right after you get tested. After that you get moved to a housing mod/sector where program is running. Program is what all us inmates are looking for while we're in the quarantine mod. It's basically where we get to come out for 3 hours out of ourselves to use the phone, watch some TV, shower, and interact with others. But in the quarantine mod, we're only allowed to be outside of our cells for 30 minutes instead of 3 hours so that's why everyone in a quarantine mod is so eager to get cleared and moved to a housing mod.</br></br>


 Okay, so back to the part where I got tested. So I get tested and I'm waiting to get cleared but the thing is they don't clear me and leave me there and completely forgot about me for another 17 days. During the last seven days there for some reason, the cops/deputies decided to put another person in my cell. It's not like I got much choice anyway so I deal with it. I had to put in a pink slip to see the doctor to ask him why haven't I been cleared yet. When the doctor hears this question he right away tells me that he's going to clear me right away. That same night my celly starts to tell me that he feels sick like if he might catch a fever or something like that. I didn't really pay attention to it cuz the next day I got moved to the housing mod. About four days later I started feeling sick/fever myself and my body started hurting badly out of nowhere and also I had problems with my breathing. I ended up letting one of the cops know when he does his hour walk. It took them about two hours just to bring a nurse so they could test me.</br></br>


I came out positive and my celly at the housing pod came out negative so the only possible explanation I had was that my old celly at quarantine mod was sick with COVID because he told me that when they put him in my cell he had three days. Which meant the cops either were not caring, or not paying attention, cut someone fresh off the streets in the same cell as me. To me that's a full plate of BS because they jeopardize my health without caring whether he had COVID or not. They put him with me knowing he was fresh out the streets and knowing that I was negative. So because of  their irresponsible thinking/actions/stupidity, I got sick. I got moved back to the quarantine mod again for another month. Which meant 30 minutes only to shower and call our loved ones. Not only have I gotten a visit nor my celly, and my cellys that have been here for 5 years- well, he had gotten a visit during the pandemic crisis.</br></br>


It's funny Orange County is a much wealthier county than the ones around yet I can't afford video visits or more than two free phone calls a week. The free phone calls are five minutes long each which sucks in my opinion. We inmates miss our loved ones and would love to see them but Orange County is too cheap to even get us some tablets so we can FaceTime our loved ones at least once a month that way everyone has a turn and a visit. LA County and other counties are actually doing the most they can to get the inmates to be able to see their loved ones. In my opinion, the cops don't really care at all about us so from me to you guys, thanks for this project.</br></br>


To us it's more than just a  project, it's an indescribable way of people out there showing some interest in us because, yeah we are criminals we do have bad/horrible choices and decisions that we made but we are in the  end, human beings. So thank you. You know up from now everything has been okay, nothing much happened but the only thing is that we never could have followed the six feet apart rule. Some of the deputies in the monitor station don't even care if we wear masks or not they only care when the sergeant is walking and sees us without our masks. That pretty much wraps it up for my story. I would say to stay tuned because I might get picked up by immigration upon my release but that's totally on you guys. I definitely want to know more about your project so please elaborate more on that topic. Also will you and your group be riding back? I give full authorization to post this whenever you want to post it on. Also instead of typing, you college students should try writing here just in case you guys right back to me. Again, a big thank you to you, your group, and your professor.</br></br>


Sincerely [redacted].</br></br>


Best of wishes