This story was told by an incarcerated individual at the San Joaquin County Jail.</br></b

But they just don't – like, the cleaning supplies and everything are – are inadequate for the amount of men that are being housed. And then you have also, you have a, like, 3: 30 you have another cleanup in the afternoon. But all those supplies are for the bathrooms and the showers and the outside. Like, you don't ever get anything. There's not somebody that cleans door knobs, there's not somebody that – and the people that are doing the chores here, like, the people, like, let's say the guy that has [unintelligible], for instance, you know, he's – he's a 22 or 23-year old individual that's never had a job in his life, has only done drugs or been in a gang or anything like that, and they don't really, like, know how to clean. So, you know, things don't get taken care of they way they should, so when it came – they ended up double bunking us. So like I said, we're in – we're in rooms with a bed and a desk and that's it. A door, you know? It's about a – I don't know – about a 12 by 7 maybe, and – and they had overcrowding in the intake part, which is actually like a jail cell, and they came in and they threw a bunch of mattresses in a pile by the door, and they moved in 16 more guys.</br></br>

And, so, 16 rooms got additional, you know, bunks on the ground. So now you had instead of just 66 people, we had – what's that – 82? And it's three of the individuals for sure that – that came in on this – on this little emergency, you know, bunking situation, like, were – were – they looked dead to the world. Like, they were just laid on the floor. They never moved. They were just, you know, complained about headaches. And then some people talked to them. They're, like, well, how long, you know, what's up? How long you been here? And it turns out that they had been here less than a week and they didn't even go through a quarantine process, and they were in here living on the floors. And we're all using the same sinks, the same showers, the same bathrooms, and, you know, next thing you know, couple guys are talking about they got headaches. And then it just – so we've been on quarantine now for I think we're going into our fifth week, sixth week, and – but we all – we – we've passed two of the – two of the tests, so we got two of them all negatives.</br></br>

They – but they finally came up with a situation where they put all of the individuals that the first time through they took everybody – there was, like, 19 people that had it, and – or tested positive anyway, and they took all of those people and they moved them back to intake. And then it thinned out the population enough to where, you know, we – we should have got a hold on it, but because our – our bathrooms and our showers and stuff, like I said, are – are outside of the cell, there's a lot of movement and you have a lot of people that are, like, going in other rooms and hanging out and talking, and they're – so they're contracting the virus that way, you know, because they're, like, oh, yeah, well, he doesn't look sick, and this guy doesn't look sick.