This story was told by an incarcerated individual at the San Joaquin County Jail.</br></b

Caller: I was in – I was in Susanville [unintelligible] which is up in – it's in Susanville, but I was actually in Fire Camp, so I was – it was, like, a minimum security [unintelligible] doing all that, and then COVID hit and it put us on quarantine lockdown. And it – and it was touch and go at first because we – we were doing road work, like we were out doing fuel breaks and stuff out in the community, and we had it – like, our – we – we were based out of Antelope Camp, which is on the prison grounds, so as far as all the camps went, they were – like, we were out working, we were out in the community. We, like, it didn't even affect us because we were just out in the woods and – and we were, you know, cutting down trees and – and doing fuel breaks and stuff prior to the fire season, but then the guards brought it in and it – they – once one person got sick, it put us all on quarantine.</br></br>

And then they – it was – like, we lost 12 people – every time since we were on the prison grounds, which is, like, all the other camps are, like, off way out in the middle of nowhere, but since we were on the prison grounds and the prison was on quarantine, every positive test was rolled up and then moved back into the facility, and they started doing emergency releases, and there was people that had up to – man, I saw one guy that had 14 months left, he – he just – they just called him into the office and were, like, hey, can you get a ride tomorrow? Like, the first guy was, like, they were – they called five guys and they were, like, look, if you guys can get a ride out of here by Tuesday, you get to go home. And they were, like, all dumbfounded. They didn't know what to do.</br></br>

So they started making calls and then they started working even though, like, where, oh, I can jump in with this guy and he's going to the same, you know, he's going by that area where I live, so he'll just drop me off and, like, they – it was just, like, emergent, like, it was frantic. These guys were tripping. You know, nobody believed they were really going to get out. And then at the last minute they COVID tested them all, and one of them got cancelled because he had COVID by the time his release date came up. So he had plane tickets and he had – he had all kind of stuff going on. His people had come up all the way from – from San Bernardino. They flew up, took – took off the time from work. It was his sister and his mom had took the time off of work, flew all the way up to Susanville, rented a car, went and rented a motel, and stayed in the motel for, like, it was, like, three or five days by the – by the time they finally decided that they were going to go back. So they spent, like, a – a significant amount of money trying to get, you know, their, you know, their son and husband home or son and brother home. And then finally they told them, oh, yeah, well, we can't let them out until after he, you know, because they weren't releasing people that actually had the virus.