This story was told by an incarcerated individual at the San Joaquin County Jail.</br></b

When I contracted it, I – I just woke up one night in the middle of the night and I had a headache, and it was a – it was a decent headache, and then the next day I noticed that my legs, my muscles were kind of sore. And I didn't – I didn't really think nothing of it, though, because I – I had worked out legs really – really, you know, hard the day before, so, you know, my – my legs were supposed to be sore as it was, but then the next day my legs were sore, I kind of, like, I thought, you know, I should probably take a look at that. So I put in a – a little request on a – on the machine downstairs. I went and notified medical that I had, you know, headaches and sore muscles and thought nothing of it; you know what I mean? And everything was good. I didn't have no problems after that. Just went away. And I was thinking, okay, well, maybe I'm just, you know, I'm just being a hypochondriac or something and I'm just kind of worried myself into feeling that I was sick. And didn't [unintelligible] tested us, and I came back negative, and I felt – felt kind of confident that everything was going to be okay.</br></br>

And then the next test the next week, they came back to my cell after they had already cleared – after they had already came through and did all of the tests, they came back to my cell and notified me that my test had come back indecisive or inconclusive or something like that, and they – they took another one, and then they came back and they said, oh, well, you – you reported that you were having symptoms, so we're going to move you up with everybody else that has it. So I ended up moving up into a little area. By now they had figured out to put – because we were all sharing the same sink and the same showers, and nobody goes and washes their hands, like, at, you know, you're – all the doorknobs and all the faucets and everything is where it was being passed, obviously, because we weren't getting a chance to clean them, and, you know, you don't – it was just you don't think about some of the stuff that you're touching, obviously.</br></br>

And, you know, really, like, we had one guy that said that – one guy looked really bad. He was – he was, like, sweating, and he had told a couple of his friends, he was an African American [unintelligible] that – that he couldn't smell anything, and he was going to go and – and this is in the very beginning when – when it first started coming in. He said he was going to go and notify the, you know, the deputies that – that he had – that he was sick, and his buddy told him, no, no, no, don't do that. He goes, yeah, I can't smell and I'm sick and this and that, and he goes, no. And he [unintelligible] and he came back with peppers and – and Flamin' Hot Cheetos with chili sauce on it and told him, here, take this and it will clear you up. I know – I know home remedies. And, so, because he didn't want his friend to go back to intake or to be removed from the – the building he was in, he jeopardized all our health and – and didn't let the guy go through the – through the process of, you know, being around – and it's – like, it's something that, like, I – I didn't really realize how, like, discourteous we are to each other until, you know, this – until, you know, the – this thing came through here.