This story was told by a person incarcerated at San Joaquin County Jail.</br></br>

Caller: But I – and then I – I understand if you want to know more about being able to give you more information about what we're going through here in jail with this – this prison pandemic thing. Well, first of all, everybody keeps telling me to remind me to tell you about how originally there was 60 of us in here. We've been here for about a month already [unintelligible] with just the group we had, there was no COVID present. We were all good. And then all of a sudden out of nowhere, they started double bunking us, which these rooms are only equipped for one – one bed. It's got one bed.</br></br>

It's equipped – it's a cell for one. But out of nowhere they started double bunking us and they'd move – over night they moved 16 new guys in here. They – they'd have a guy sleeping on the floor next to a guy, and then they did that just – just for that night, and then through – halfway through the next day they'd – they'd come in and grab those same 16 guys and move them back out of here. They – and then three days later, they did it again. They did this twice in a row for reasons unbeknownst to anybody.</br></br>

And with that, like, a few days later they're, like, they start this immediate COVID, like, panic talking about all these other pods have COVID and we're going to have to test you all – all you guys for COVID and people suddenly started getting sick. And then, like, 20 of us tested positive for COVID and they just locked us down 30 days from there. It was a little strange. And then – and now I've been through this three times since I've been here over the past, like, two years almost, and three different occasions where we've gone through this prison lockdown. This is their lockdown to where they closed down the courts to us and they won't let us go to court because of the fact that they want to make sure none of us have COVID and we don't want to – they don't want to send us the judge's way with COVID, carrying all that stuff and getting everybody sick over there. So that – that's the usual. We're used to that. That makes sense.</br></br>

But now they – they – we – everybody here has passed a negative on the test three times in a row, so that they can – they opened up the floor. We're no longer on lockdown after, like, yesterday. And, so, and with that, I have court tomorrow, and all's I got to do is get to this dang courtroom and talk to the judge and I'm likely to walk right out of here either with time served or get my bail reinstated. One way or another, I'm walking out of here and – and I've – I've ready [unintelligible] out a court date last Tuesday that I missed because we were still on lockdown. Now they've released this – they've taken back the – the lockdown as of yesterday, so my court date tomorrow, I should get out of here. They're informing us that they're not allowing us to go to court still because now that they've cured us and they've rid the whole pod of COVID, they don't want to let us out in the world because there's COVID out there and they – they don't want to get us sick.</br></br>

So there's several people in here that are past their time served and should just be out. You know, their sentence is done. They just got to, you know, be released essentially, and they're refusing to release them because there's COVID – the [ward] full of COVID. And I don't know what – where they get this – this power of attorney over us, this right over our lives, but, yeah, those – they're taking such good care of us they're just going to keep us locked up for the rest of our lives, I guess, and I don't know where it's going with all this, but I'm – it's quite frustrating. So just they mutter, like, oh, that could change at any time. So I keep my fingers crossed hoping that I'll wake up tomorrow. My court's supposed to be – I should – should have court at 8:30 in the morning. I'm hoping I'll just wake up tomorrow and they'll go handcuff me and put me on a bus, send me on my way. Otherwise, if I miss tomorrow's court date, they'll immediately take it back ten more days.