Infection
About a month in a half later I get sick and I cannot explain what is happening to me. At first I thought it was a cold but it felt diffirently. Still I went into my jail house remedy in dealin with a cold. It did not work! I lost my sense of smell, I had no energy, I was sweating alot “I had chills”, my appetite left and I was having problems using the rest room. Still I stayed on my normal routine until I just could not. A C/O I knew came to my door with a nurse to take vitals and noticed that I was not myself and her together with the nurse insisted that I go to what is known as TTA (medical). I agreed only if they would give me an I.V. because I knew I was dehydrated. Well once the I.V. was in I went straight to sleep. When I woke up the nurse told me that I had a temperature over a 100 degrees and that the P.A. Was sending me to the wing that those (at that time) The prison house the suspected of having covid-19. She went on to say that the covid19 test was given but my results were negative. They only knew that I was sick and presented with all the symptoms of the virus. While the “Y” wing (covid wing at that time) I got worst. I started throwing up, my equilibrium was off and I can no longer get anything down. I told myself to just fight, so I would just stare at my food until I had enough courage to try and force it down. I knew I had to eat and drink except I could not. Each time it would come back up violently. It felt as if I was having a seizure while throwing up because my body would lock up on me. I should also note that while in the medical TTA the nurse per the P.A.‘a request did give me some pills, I think Tylenol 3’s and some sort of shot in the arm that hurted. I remember the nurse explaining that it was suppose to hurt. Not sure about most of the time line but later a nurse [Redacted] (registry) together with a C/O explain that I was being moved to the gym (isolation) With those who were known covid19 patients. I just wanted to get better. Once in the gym I slept in the times I was awake I wondered if this is how my mother felt as she passed away from the virus. However, this was only a thought. I have to say it was never afraid. I only wondered if this was the way I was going to go. So I prayed as I always do.