This story was told by a person incarcerated at Washington State Stafford Creek.


UCI: Okay, let's see. So, how has the COVID situation affected your family? I know you've already talked a little bit about video visitations, but how are they dealing with everything? 


Caller: Well, you mean in-. I'm not quite sure I understand the question.


UCI: Basically just how have they been coping with, I guess, not being able to come visit you every week or anything like that. Does that make more sense? 


Caller: Okay, well, my mom is completely disabled in a hospital bed in her living room, on oxygen, dialysis three times a week, and everything else. So, she-. I mean, we would like to be able to get her, you know, to come see me just in case, you know, she doesn't make it until I can get out. So that has been completely taken away. All we have is the video visits and she lives so far out in the country that the internet is just sucks there, so-. You know?


UCI: Mhm.


Caller: And my girl, it's caused-. There's many times like during the video visits she'll just start crying because she wants to see me, she wants to touch me, and it's just-. I don't know. It just sucks. 


UCI: Mhm.


Caller: You know, when you love somebody and you get used to spending time with them in that little small fashion in the visit room and then that's taken away, it really makes it rough. You know, fortunately, like I said, I'm at the tail end of a long sentence and I'm going home to her. But it doesn't make the time between now and then any easier. 


You know, and also, I'm not trying to totally bash the DOC because, yeah. They screwed up on some stuff. They could have done things totally different, but they've also done stuff where they're trying to help people like with the three video visits and you know that kind of stuff. 


They've stopped doing cell searches and all that stuff for, I mean-. They said they were going to start back up but they haven't done it yet, you know? Because they didn't want to possibly transmit and pass stuff around. There's no pat searches up here — hasn't been for a long time. So, they have taken it serious. 


UCI: Mhm.


Caller: So, you know, I just want to make sure that it's not just a one-way bash to the DOC thing. You know, and trust me. I'm not one to stand up for the DOC. I couldn't fucking care less about them, so I'm not trying to pat them on the back either. I'm just trying to be the devil's advocate, here.