This story was told by a person incarcerated at Washington State Stafford Creek.


UCI: Mhm. Yeah, no. I completely understand what you're trying to say. So, I know you've briefly mentioned that they are offering vaccines, but so, have a lot of people been getting them? Are they easy to get? I know you aren't-. You're choosing not to get one for safety reasons, but could you talk a little bit more about the vaccine situation?


Caller: Yeah, so when they first started I believe they went around all the inmates were 65 and older and offered it to them. They could either take it or deny it, and after they got done with all of them they basically had a day where they went around to each unit. Let's see. How did they do it?


I can't remember if they came into the unit or if it was actually-, went somewhere, but they was basically-. They said, "if you want it, come down and get it." So, anybody that wanted it was able to go get it.


UCI: Mhm. 


Caller: I mean, they have made it readily available. I just choose not to do it.


UCI: Yeah, no. I completely understand. Do you know if like a lot of staff members are choosing to get it? I know you say a lot of them have COVID now. Are they-. Is it because they chose not to get vaccinated?


Caller: I-. I don't think I can really answer that because that would be total hearsay, you know? It's just the rumor mill and I have no facts to substantiate, you know, an honest, truthful answer on that. So, I honestly, I don't know. 


UCI: Yeah, okay, no problem at all. Just wondering. Is there anything else you want people to know about your experience? 


Caller: I don't know it's just-. I mean, this is rough for all of us, you know? I feel sorry for the ones that lost their lives and I think people need to take it more serious than they are. Because there's a lot of skeptical people that still don't believe. I hear people in here, "ah fuck," that this is some kind of rouse and "blah, blah, blah," and it's like, seriously? 


You know, how can you say that with everything that's going on? Turn the TV on and see what's going on. 


UCI: Mhm. 


Caller: You know? But then I also, you know, I watch TV. That's my only link to the free world and I do not agree this push that they're doing out there now trying to get people-. They're basically trying to force people to take the vaccines, is the way I see it. And you're supposed to have free choice of whether you want to do it or not. 


But, now, if you don't do it, you know, it's sounding like you're not going to be able to fly on a plane, you're not going to be able to go to a university, you're not going to be able to do this, you're not going to be able to do that. And I think that's bullshit.


UCI: Mhm. 


Caller: You know, this country is based on freedoms and being able to have choices and by them trying to force that vaccine and stuff on people. I believe that totally undermines what our country is all about and, you know, what's your right as an American is.