This letter was written by a person incarcerated at Wasco.</br></br>I couldn’t believe it, simply because they weren’t doing much to protect us from anything at the county jail until it was too late. I kept seeing guidelines on the news but none of that applies to us. No masks were provided, no social distancing rules, no disinfectants, people from the outside world kept coming in and us left there with no sense of direction. We had three man bunks filled and they were definitely not six feet apart. We were literally trapped inside waiting to get COVID because it was inevitable with these conditions. My safety inside felt like it didn’t really matter to no one if we die since we’re “criminals” and we deserve to fade away more than anyone else. </br></br>At the end of the day we are humans and are prone to making mistakes but we all deserve to live to have another chance at change. We were all baffled all we knew was that there was no more family visits and they took away our canteen for a modified COVID proportion which was barely enough to get you through a couple of days. This was hard for a lot of people since our last meal was around four and we were left to figure it out after that, which was hard since we could only get a small COVID package at a ridiculous price. Not only was Aramark (which is in charge of supplying canteen and our meals) giving us smaller portions, they were also charging us high prices for canteen, talk about corporate cuts. </br></br>This really got me going so I decided to get the housing unit to go on strike like the others until we got all the necessities we needed during a serious time like this. I mean people were dying for goodness sake, and we had some older gentlemen who were high risk. Once everyone agreed we refused to be fed since they were feeding us on reusable trays that could potentially have the virus, I told the officer we weren’t going to touch that food especially knowing that whoever prepared those meals could have at any time contracted the virus. </br></br>During this time there had already been over 200 inmates out of 900 who had it according to updates from the sergeant. Two weeks later we were at over 500 infected. When I spoke up for my people about us not accepting the food until they got it together, I was singled out for being blunt about what was going on and was given a write up. Later I was sent to the hole, which means I was rehoused to a cell where we are locked down for 21 hours every day, not too bad compared to the 24 hour lockdown for people in quarantine. I couldn’t help the feeling of being in a safer environment even though this was supposed to be my punishment. </br></br> [illegible] it was tough to get adjusted to my new housing but I eventually adapted to it. I would read, write, exercise and mainly ponder on my thoughts. I found myself always housing the same thoughts of hopelessness, I was being punished for helping all the inmates get what we should have to protect ourselves from a virus that is truly killing and affecting people’s health. They could care less it seemed, I would hear numerous guards comments on the virus the majority being selfish negative ones like “the virus is BS only weak people die from it” “it’s all fake” “this was planned to get rid of the weak” and “I hope all those people protesting get corona”.