This letter was written by a person incarcerated at Wasco.</br></br>I thank you for finding me and sending this invitation to share my story. I send my best regards towards your endeavor on the goal to help lead towards positive reforms. I hope all is well with you and your loved ones. Keep pushing though this rough patch towards your goals. I was wondering if I can receive another letter informing how the Prison Pandemic Project is going, any updates or break throughs. I was already going to join the Historic Society in Salinas, CA so I’m interested to see how all this is going to be archived and would love to help in any way I can besides the letter I sent.</br></br> I am being sincere and fully authentic about this, since a kid I’ve loved history and have always wanted to help leave my mark in change for the future. So if there is any way I can get a hold of someone to see how I can help, please send a letter with the info so I can reach them when I am released. I have encouraged inmates to also send letters but only a few are truly interested. Take care, and I hope all goes well with you and your studies at UCI you will do good things in life, I believe in you.</br></br>P.S. Pardon my sloppy handwriting I don’t know why or how but I still have never been able to develop good handwriting, maybe it’s because I have big hands or because I rush through, but I doubt it. Adios, espero que te trate bien la Buena vida. (farewell, I hope that the good life treats you well.)</br></br>Time of Change</br></br>
Dear the UCI Prison Pandemic Team</br></br>
I’d like to start off this letter by thanking you for sending this invitation and giving me the opportunity to be heard. This truly means a lot to me given the circumstances we are all facing during these historically hard times. There’s so much going on around the world that adds stress and worry to an already difficult life. Through the many walks of life upon our planet we are all being affected by this pandemic, some more or less than others.</br></br>These times have opened the eyes of many people regarding other issues that we as humans face like mental health, racial injustices, pollution, global warming, economics, homelessness, prison reformation and the list goes on. This predicament has given us a unique opportunity to improve how we as humans deal with all the problems around us.</br></br>Everywhere around the world people have been locked in their homes (if they are fortunate to have one) required to stay six feet apart from each other and quarantine when required. This has given us all a break from our constant routine to be able to actually sit and think. From what I’ve heard and seen on the news more people have been taking time to check in with themselves and their mental, physical, and spiritual health. Not only have people been focusing more attention on their temple, they have also been paying attention to what’s going on around it. Now is the perfect time for a change, a change that will lead all of humanity to a better future. A future that is filled with uncertainty, but one thing that’s for certain is that we all have the power to change.</br></br>Change plays a major part in all of our lives, my mother always told me “nothing stays the same, everything changes”. As I journey through this unfortunate dilemma in my life based on the mistakes I’ve made, I have had more than enough time to fully assess myself and the world around me. Especially during these times when everything seems like it’s headed downhill. This is coming from the perspective of a 23 year old Hispanic male incarcerated in a California prison institution.</br></br>I’m certain that everyone’s been having a hard time getting accustomed to living isolated and “social distancing” from the world around us. I’ve seen multiple stories on the news how social distancing and being at home has affected people’s businesses, mental health, education, relationships, diets, physical activities, and overall their everyday lives. Numerous complaints from my family and friends on how they’re just home not doing much “thanks to this coronavirus.” Not to mention articles on magazines and in the state issued tablets back at Monterey County Jail. This was all creating a pattern of how much people hated it, yet unlike inmates, they are still blessed to be able to truly communicate with their families, stay away from people to protect themselves from COVID-19, to sit back and relax listen to music and unwind, have a decent meal and the list goes on.</br></br>I’m taking this time to remind the world that no matter how bad you think it may seem, there will always be someone out there who would rather fill your shoes than theirs. Me being one, I still keep in mind that there’s someone out there who would rather be in mine than to see their family suffer from COVID, natural disasters or a number of other problems they may have. Times are tough for everyone and it makes it harder being incarcerated not being able to see your loved ones and being there for them. This in no way is a complaint, I’m young and made my decisions and am fully aware of my mistakes that I am now paying for. This letter is to shed light on how it has been to be in the prison system during these times.</br></br>Being locked down and isolated from the world is hard enough, now we have to deal with the pandemic from within with no family visits, no sports at yard, and “social distancing.” I remember when I started my journey, I was booked into the Monterey County Jail in February 2020 with no knowledge of any pandemic since it had yet to hit the news feeds in the states. Then boom three weeks later, I was eating a bologna sandwich on a table that faces the TV at our housing unit when suddenly I see that a new lethal virus is going around. At first it seemed like it was just going to be small, a new form of the flu that we’ll get by quickly. Then as the weeks then months progressed it went the exact opposite from what I had thought it would. I was truly a believer when my friends and family kept telling me how different it was out there, restaurants closed, curfews enforced, stay at home orders, jobs being lost and most importantly lives being taken.</br></br>I couldn’t believe it, simply because they weren’t doing much to protect us from anything at the county jail until it was too late. I kept seeing guidelines on the news but none of that applies to us. No masks were provided, no social distancing rules, no disinfectants, people from the outside world kept coming in and us left there with no sense of direction. We had three man bunks filled and they were definitely not six feet apart. We were literally trapped inside waiting to get COVID because it was inevitable with these conditions. My safety inside felt like it didn’t really matter to no one if we die since we’re “criminals” and we deserve to fade away more than anyone else.</br></br>At the end of the day we are humans and are prone to making mistakes but we all deserve to live to have another chance at change. We were all baffled all we knew was that there was no more family visits and they took away our canteen for a modified COVID proportion which was barely enough to get you through a couple of days. This was hard for a lot of people since our last meal was around four and we were left to figure it out after that, which was hard since we could only get a small COVID package at a ridiculous price. Not only was Aramark (which is in charge of supplying canteen and our meals) giving us smaller portions, they were also charging us high prices for canteen, talk about corporate cuts.</br></br>This really got me going so I decided to get the housing unit to go on strike like the others until we got all the necessities we needed during a serious time like this. I mean people were dying for goodness sake, and we had some older gentlemen who were high risk. Once everyone agreed we refused to be fed since they were feeding us on reusable trays that could potentially have the virus, I told the officer we weren’t going to touch that food especially knowing that whoever prepared those meals could have at any time contracted the virus. </br></br>During this time there had already been over 200 inmates out of 900 who had it according to updates from the sergeant. Two weeks later we were at over 500 infected. When I spoke up for my people about us not accepting the food until they got it together, I was singled out for being blunt about what was going on and was given a write up. Later I was sent to the hole, which means I was rehoused to a cell where we are locked down for 21 hours every day, not too bad compared to the 24 hour lockdown for people in quarantine. I couldn’t help the feeling of being in a safer environment even though this was supposed to be my punishment.</br></br> [illegible] it was tough to get adjusted to my new housing but I eventually adapted to it. I would read, write, exercise and mainly ponder on my thoughts. I found myself always housing the same thoughts of hopelessness, I was being punished for helping all the inmates get what we should have to protect ourselves from a virus that is truly killing and affecting people’s health. They could care less it seemed, I would hear numerous guards comments on the virus the majority being selfish negative ones like “the virus is BS only weak people die from it” “it’s all fake” “this was planned to get rid of the weak” and “I hope all those people protesting get corona”.</br></br>From the pandemic, to natural disasters, to over 20 fires in California, to unemployment rates at a historical high this all gave me a sense of lost hope for what’s waiting for me outside these walls. The news made me feel like I was going to come out to a new world and I’m yet to truly see the changes this has all caused. I felt like I was just going to be stuck inside to die in a place where no one should ever have to. Having no face to face visits only added to the emotional roller coaster I was going through. We used to get visits once a week for an hour to be in front of a familiar face (of course separated by glass) and actually feel at ease for your time being.</br></br>I’ve had PTSD for god only knows how long, I had witnessed my friend’s father get shot at the age of seven and numerous similar events throughout my life time in Salinas, CA where I was born and raised. I have trouble sleeping before being incarcerated and being inside only made it worse. The only thing at the time that made me feel calm is knowing my family was safe. I would have ridiculous nightmares of being shot, a pandemic that created zombies (crazy, I know), and of mega earthquakes causing tsunamis and me drowning in a cell. All these nightmares would cause me to wake up in cold sweats. I would always dry myself off and drink water all while thinking that all these events I dream of were possibilities that could happen in the near future. This only fueled my hopelessness and isolation from the world.</br></br>I truly never knew what was going on out there all I had was the local news and word of mouth. With my PTSD being triggered I noticed I was having trouble reading, exercising, excessive eating and sleeping, I felt like I was going downhill. I noticed on the news that there were people shedding positive light on mental health awareness and how we all need to check in with ourselves every now and then. I had already read a book by Elyn R. Saks titled “The Center Cannot Hold”, while I was in the infirmary in the county jail to recover from the appendicitis I got in March. This all gave me the confidence I needed to seek professional help since I was feeling low all the time and occasionally even suicidal thoughts. I put in a mental health request and was seen like two weeks later, the nurses were helpful and gave me articles to read on how to cope and recommended I take Zoloft and was able to get things more under control with physical and mental exercise. I still continue to exercise six days a week, meditate at least once a week, I read and write, eat healthier (even though it’s hard given the limited options) and continue to seek my purpose through spirituality which is why I wrote this.</br></br>It’s been a difficult year but I’ve rode through the storm and continue adapting to it and know that soon all this will get well. This year (2020-2021) has been tough for all of us but through this storm that weathered the world, we have uncovered many hidden problems we all have as humans all while paving the way to change these problems. I truly hope we all learn from and take in everything we’ve all been through as a whole. Humanity, an eight letter word that unifies us all no matter the race, gender, religion or any other differentials. As human beings it is our duty to assure the future of this earth and the youth that will carry on the torch. We the people must all come together and realize that it’s bigger than us, the infrastructure of human society is at stake if we keep living like we used to.</br></br>By changing our habits changing our use of natural resources, changing certain aspects of our prison system, by simply analyzing the reaction to our actions we will be able to help better the world we share. I have great faith and hope that one day in the near future we will be able to look back and see how far we’ve come. I truly hope and wish the best for everyone during these times. Soon we will all be able to say “COVID-19 the virus that changed our lives.”  Until then I will continue to change myself in order for me to help make a change, a change that will thrive.