Okay, so back to the part where I got tested. So I get tested and I'm waiting to get cleared but the thing is they don't clear me and leave me there and completely forgot about me for another 17 days. During the last seven days there for some reason, the cops/deputies decided to put another person in my cell. It's not like I got much choice anyway so I deal with it. I had to put in a pink slip to see the doctor to ask him why haven't I been cleared yet. When the doctor hears this question he right away tells me that he's going to clear me right away. That same night my celly starts to tell me that he feels sick like if he might catch a fever or something like that. I didn't really pay attention to it cuz the next day I got moved to the housing mod. About four days later I started feeling sick/fever myself and my body started hurting badly out of nowhere and also I had problems with my breathing. I ended up letting one of the cops know when he does his hour walk. It took them about two hours just to bring a nurse so they could test me.</br></br>


I came out positive and my celly at the housing pod came out negative so the only possible explanation I had was that my old celly at quarantine mod was sick with COVID because he told me that when they put him in my cell he had three days. Which meant the cops either were not caring, or not paying attention, cut someone fresh off the streets in the same cell as me. To me that's a full plate of BS because they jeopardize my health without caring whether he had COVID or not. They put him with me knowing he was fresh out the streets and knowing that I was negative. So because of  their irresponsible thinking/actions/stupidity, I got sick. I got moved back to the quarantine mod again for another month. Which meant 30 minutes only to shower and call our loved ones. Not only have I gotten a visit nor my celly, and my cellys that have been here for 5 years- well, he had gotten a visit during the pandemic crisis.</br></br>


It's funny Orange County is a much wealthier county than the ones around yet I can't afford video visits or more than two free phone calls a week. The free phone calls are five minutes long each which sucks in my opinion. We inmates miss our loved ones and would love to see them but Orange County is too cheap to even get us some tablets so we can FaceTime our loved ones at least once a month that way everyone has a turn and a visit. LA County and other counties are actually doing the most they can to get the inmates to be able to see their loved ones. In my opinion, the cops don't really care at all about us so from me to you guys, thanks for this project.</br></br>


To us it's more than just a  project, it's an indescribable way of people out there showing some interest in us because, yeah we are criminals we do have bad/horrible choices and decisions that we made but we are in the  end, human beings. So thank you. You know up from now everything has been okay, nothing much happened but the only thing is that we never could have followed the six feet apart rule. Some of the deputies in the monitor station don't even care if we wear masks or not they only care when the sergeant is walking and sees us without our masks.